### Super-n-motifs model ###

**Comparing RNA secondary structures** of arbitrary size uncovers **structural patterns** that can provide a better understanding of **RNA functions**. However, performing fast and accurate **secondary structure comparisons** is **challenging** when we take into account the **RNA configuration (i.e., linear or circular)**, the presence of **pseudoknot** and **G-quadruplex (G4)** motifs and the **increasing number of secondary structures** generated by high-throughput probing techniques. To address this challenge, we propose the **super-n-motifs model**, based on a latent analysis of enhanced motifs comprising not only basic motifs but also adjacency relations. The super-n-motifs model computes a vector representation of secondary structures as linear combinations of these motifs.
  
The super-n-motifs model computes dissimilarities between RNA secondary structures (SS) based on super-n-motifs representation. It takes as input SS in vienna/db format. It provides various ouputs, in csv format, (see -p parameter) such as the dissimilarity matrix i.e. the SS\*SS dissimilarity matrix (matDissim_SSbySS.csv) and others such as the matrix representing the super-n-motifs representation of SS i.e. the SS\*super n-motifs matrix (matSnmRep_SSbySnm.csv), etc.

### How to run the super-n-motifs program ###
The compilation of the super-n-motifs model requires the installation of the boost library (http://www.boost.org/).

Usage:

* supernmotifs [Parameters]...	

Examples : 

* Execute super-n-motifs in command line

  ./pathOfSupernmotifsProgram/supernmotifs -i /PathtoDbFile
  -o /OutputDirectoryPath/

Important notes:

* Circular RNA 

  For the processing of secondary structures of circular RNA, adding 'c_'
   at the beginning of the header of each circular RNA is required. 		
   
* Pseudoknots and Gquadruplexes

  Special characters '{}','<>','[]', and alphabets such as 'Aa','Bb','Zz' 
  are used to represent base pairs involved in pseudoknots. '+' is used to 
  represent each guanine involved in the Gquadraplexes formation.

### Parameters ###

  -h 	
		 	
	Print help and exit the program.
	
  -i [input vienna file]  
  
    Input file of RSS in vienna/db format (required).
    >strucID
    AAAAAUU
    ((...))

  -o [output folder] 	
  
    Results folder (required).

  -n [0|1|2] 
  
    Specify the maximum level of n-motifs used to 
    extract the n-motifs. It must be 0, 1 or 2. For instance: when 
    it is set to 0, 0-motifs will be extracted. When it is set 
    to 1, 0-motifs and 1-motifs will be extracted. etc.
    (default : -n 1)

  -s [s=0|s>=2]
	
    Specify  the number of super-n-motifs. 
    (default : -s 0 for automatic determination of the number of 
    super-n-motifs using the brocken stick model)

  -m [m>=0]	
	
    Specify the minimum occurrence of n-motifs. N-motifs with occurrence
    below the minimum occurrence are removed. When it is set to 0, 
    it computes the automatic n-motif minimum occurrence. 
    (default : -m 0)

  -g [0|1|2|3|4|5]

    Specify the length of sequence patterns (ngrams).
    (default : -g 0)

  -p [0|1|2|3|4]	
    
     Specify the output options. 
     (default: -p 0)
     '-p 0' to output the SS*SS dissimilarity matrix (matDissim_SSbySS.csv)
     and some statistics (stat.csv)
     '-p 1' to output the SS*super n-motifs matrix that is the super-n-motif
     representation of SS (matSnmRep_SSbySnm.csv)
     '-p 2' to output the SS*SS dissimilarity matrix (matDissim_SSbySS.csv),
     the SS*n-motifs dissimilarity matrix (matDissim_SSbynm.csv), the 
     SS*supernmotifs matrix that is the super-n-motif representation of SS
     (matSnmRep_SSbySnm.csv), the n-motifs*super n-motifs matrix that is the 	
     super-n-motifs representation of n-motifs (matSnmRep_nmbySnm.csv),
     the singular values (singularValuesFull_supernmotifs.csv) and the matrix
     associating with each n-motifs its position in each SS (matnmPos.csv)
     '-p 3' to output the SS*SS dissimilarity matrix based on the n-motif 
     representation (matDissimNmotifsBased_SSbySS.csv)
     '-p 4' to output the SS*n-motifs matrix that is the n-motif representation 
     of SS (matNmRep_SSbyNm.csv)
     '-p 5' to get all outputs including the full version of all the matrices 
